


# Results

Of 5,088 unique citations, we excluded 3,961 citations during title and abstract screening. Of the 552 remaining citations we could locate for full-text eligibility assessment, we excluded 375 citations. We included the remaining 133 studies (reported in  manuscripts) in our scoping review (see [Figure 1](#fig-flow-diagram)).

## Characteristics of Sources of Evidence

We provide a summary of characteristics of sources of evidence in [Table 1](#tbl1-study-char). Included studies were published from 1980 to 2025 (median of 2018). Of the 133 studies, most (n = 102; 77%) are published in grey literature: 75 (56%) as a student dissertation or thesis, 19 (14%) as a student dissertation or thesis, and 8 (6%) as a preprint. Only 31 studies (23%) had a peer-reviewed journal article as the final version of record. Of the 75 student dissertation or thesis article types, 62 (83% of student manuscripts) were a doctoral dissertation, 11 (15%) were a masters thesis, and 2 (3%) were an undergraduate thesis. Most students completed dissertations and theses in partial fulfillment of degrees in education (n = 67; 89%), followed by economics (n = 4; 5%), psychology (n = 2; 3%), music (n = 1; 1%), and sociology (n = 1; 1%).

Studies collected and analyzed data from 1975 to 2025 (median of 2012). Studies predominantly included data from rural communities in their sample (n = 97; 73%), though numerous studies also included data from urban (n = 39; 29%) and suburban communities in their samples (n = 36; 27%); 32 studies (24%) did not report information on community type. Studies included data from 35 states — most predominantly from Missouri (n = 40; 30%), Colorado (n = 29; 22%), Oklahoma (n = 18; 14%), Oregon (n = 18; 14%), New Mexico (n = 13; 10%), and South Dakota (n = 12; 9%). The number of studies providing data from elementary (n = 96; 72%), middle (n = 90; 68%), and high (n = 95; 71%) schools was fairly evenly distributed across levels, *with data representing all grades (except kindergarten) included in at least half the studies*. Most studies did not provide information on student race/ethnicity (n = 81; 61%) nor activities on the fifth “off day” officially offered by schools or districts (n = 79; 59%).

## Types of Empirical Research Evidence

We provide a summary of types of empirical research evidence in [Table 2](#tbl2-study-evidence). Of the 133 included studies, most reported evidence on 4DSW effectiveness (n = 86; 65%). Among these 86 studies, 7 different methodological and statistical approaches were used: 23 studies used difference-in-differences (27% of effectiveness studies), 16 studies (19%) used descriptive statistics only, 15 (17%) studies used a before-after study design, 15 studies (17%) used a between-group (without controls) design, 7 studies (8%) used a between-group (with controls) design, 7 studies (8%) used a matched pair design, and 3 studies (4%) used a computational model design. These 86 studies provided outcome data across 9 domains: 55 studies (64% of effectiveness studies) reported on student achievement, 26 (30%) on student attendance, 16 (19%) on teacher and staff recruitment and retention, 9 (10%) on student attainment, 9 (10%) on student health status or behaviors, 7 (8%) on school climate, 6 (7%) on disciplinary incidents during school, 4 (5%) on household impacts, and 3 (4%) on juvenile crime. Most effectiveness studies (n = 45; 34% of effectiveness studies) also reported evidence on *equity* of 4DSW effects according to 10 domains: 28 (62% of equitability studies) on student age, 11 (24%) on community type or rurality, 11 (24%) on student socioeconomic status, 7 (16%) on student race or ethnicity, 5 (11%) on student gender identity or sex, 5 (11%) on student special education status, 3 (7%) on student English language learner status, 3 (7%) on gifted student status, and 1 (2%) on student immigration status.

Of the 81 studies (61%) that reported one type of evidence on the implementability of the 4DSW, most (n = 50; 62% of studies with implementability data) reported evidence on acceptability. These 50 studies examined satisfaction with the 4DSW among teachers (n = 34; 68%), parents (n = 20; 40%), administrators (n = 18; 36%), students (n = 15; 30%), community members (n = 11; 22%), principals (n = 8; 16%), school staff (n = 8; 16%), superintendents (n = 8; 16%), athletics (n = 2; 4%), business owners (n = 2; 4%), counselors (n = 2; 4%), and school board members (n = 2; 4%). In addition, 41 studies (51% of studies with implementability data) reported evidence on feasibility of implementing the 4DSW, and 32 (40%) reported evidence on resource use associated with switching to a 4DSW. Lastly, only 6 studies (4% of all studies) reported evidence on 4DSW as a policy priority through an explicit empirical focus on the growth of schools, districts, or states adopting the 4DSW. 

